Ryan Morrow: Hi.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Hi, how are you
Ryan Morrow: I'm good still at work.
Ryan Morrow: Here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So did I meet with you when you were in a program initially to do your bio psychosocial. Was it someone else.
Ryan Morrow: No, I've never met with you.
Ryan Morrow: Okay, alright. So,
Back to the program.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What made you leave in
Ryan Morrow: And what
Ryan Morrow: I relapsed to be honestly
Ryan Morrow: I went and the top side of that I needed to get serious.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Relax.
Ryan Morrow: Do what
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How long ago did you relax.
Like
Ryan Morrow: August, September ish. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: During that time that lets me. Let
Ryan Morrow: You know,
Ryan Morrow: I don't really have a good excuse I just
Ryan Morrow: There's too much temptation and the town that I'm from where I grew up, and
Ryan Morrow: I don't really don't know I just decided that this it would be a good idea to
Ryan Morrow: Get high, I guess.
Ryan Morrow: I just a. I mean, I don't know if it's a good excuse or not, but I just was in a bad environment.
Ryan Morrow: I wasn't doing anything positive with my life. And so I went to. I went to a detox and stated a 30 day rehab and I moved to Lubbock, Texas to work but
Ryan Morrow: I kind of still live in New Mexico, technically, but I worked in Texas.
Ryan Morrow: So I'm starting over again.
Ryan Morrow: I'm from Florida, so are you. Is that where you're at right now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. So how far it
Is from New Mexico.
Ryan Morrow: Well, my hometown is
Ryan Morrow: 90 miles from here. So, so that's it's like an hour and 15 minute drive
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You drive an hour 15 minutes to go to work.
Ryan Morrow: Now, no I I stay over here. And then I go home when I'm off. Okay. I'm like,
Ryan Morrow: I work Monday through Saturday seven to seven sometimes later. Mm hmm. And then
Ryan Morrow: I'm off for like four days. And I'll go back to close. And then I come back and stay here. Okay, I WORK. I WORK. I WORK IN THE oil field, got it, got it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So prior to that, in August. I'm assuming you didn't because you said you weren't like a good environment. You weren't doing anything good for yourself. So where you
Ryan Morrow: Know, I had a job. It was a not a very good job, but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right. So where did you go for the 30 day detox. What was the name of the place.
Ryan Morrow: Turning Point.
Ryan Morrow: In Odessa Texas. Okay. All right. Um,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So here I'm saying
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are you taking any medication, aside from the Suboxone
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, I take circle. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What do you take their, quote, for
Ryan Morrow: For sleep at night.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They have a diagnosis.
Ryan Morrow: Sleep Disorder, I guess.
Ryan Morrow: I mean, I'm sure. I'm a little bipolar.
Ryan Morrow: I might be a little PTSD from some stuff that happened to me in my past, but I just use it for sleep. I don't take a driver day, Tom.
Ryan Morrow: What
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What makes you think this time is going to be different.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What do you think this kind of work.
Ryan Morrow: Well for you it's time
Ryan Morrow: I'm just tired of going through
Ryan Morrow: All i mean it's like I'm tired of starting over. And, you know,
Ryan Morrow: I just, I decided that I'm finally like
Ryan Morrow: I'm not gonna die. I mean, that's, I mean, I figured I WAS GOING TO THIS LAST TIME I relapse that I was gonna die. I'm explain it to me. Oh.
Ryan Morrow: Well, I just kind of gave up on live. Yeah. And I was just doing that. And then I
Ryan Morrow: Came down to
Ryan Morrow: All of my, my family and friends wanted nothing to do with me and nobody wanted to help me and
Ryan Morrow: I was in a place where it was either be homeless.
Ryan Morrow: And can you I was doing
Ryan Morrow: As asking people for money and stuff to get, you know, get my my fix or going detox and figure this out.
Ryan Morrow: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Alyssa relax a suicide.
Attempt
Ryan Morrow: I'm sorry, what was the question.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was the relapses suicide attempt.
Ryan Morrow: Oh no. Oh no. I mean, I've never tried to kill myself, but I just was like, you know, I'm gonna probably gonna die doing this, like, eventually, you know,
Ryan Morrow: I'm gonna do this until I die. Let's put it that way.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, yeah. So you're trying to find
Ryan Morrow: A route to go
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm looking at your, your past history when you first came into the program, you said that you were in IoT program.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Health Resource but I'm assuming that you're not in that anymore because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're in Texas. Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, and it says that seems like the addiction started because you had an injury while riding dirt bikes age of 13 were prescribed pain meds.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is that I create because I don't want you to feel like you have to
Ryan Morrow: Go through the whole thing again. So I'm kind of
Ryan Morrow: What we have, yeah.
Ryan Morrow: I mean that that happened, but
Ryan Morrow: The first time I tried in pills opiates was when I was like 22 or 23 at a party. One night I had a drink a couple beers and somebody gave me some Percocet and
Ryan Morrow: At that point in my life. I thought the like cocaine and ecstasy were drugs and we're okay to do recreational and the as long as I didn't do math crack or heroin that I wasn't a drug addict and so
Ryan Morrow: I just party recreational you know I'd never had a problem drinking or any, like, you know, waking up and like wanting to go get high.
Ryan Morrow: It was just a party thing well after I tried those pink pills. I was like, wow, I felt really good. And then I started doing them whenever I had a chance to get them.
Ryan Morrow: I will say like five years. It was kind of a recreational thing because I never I guess could get them enough to get addicted to them.
Ryan Morrow: But in 2006 I tried oxy cotton for the first time, and I started snorting oxy cotton 80s and eventually I mean I was hooked on them and I got sick. And that was when I realized I was addicted, you know, an addict and so
Ryan Morrow: From there it just kind of got worse and worse and I tried heroin, for the first time at 30 and so for the past 10 years. It's just kind of been a rollercoaster ride off and on getting clean
Ryan Morrow: relapsing getting clean relapsing losing everything putting my life back together, getting a good job, you know, getting things kind of straightened out and then all I, for whatever reason, I just, I go back to, you know, using. So yeah. Anyways, I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Failed over and over again.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, I mean, I'm really good at putting my life back together first day. I mean, I know how to make money and
Ryan Morrow: I just have to learn to, you know, say, no, you know, because I think I get I think I get to a point where
Ryan Morrow: I'm okay like financially all my stuff's together. And I think that it's okay to go and yeah hi and in my mind it's only going to be for a day or two and then it turns into a habit again. Yeah. And so we, I realized that I
Ryan Morrow: Do that anymore and
Ryan Morrow: I really am to a point where if I if I relapse. Again, I don't, I don't think I would
Ryan Morrow: I would make it out of it.
Ryan Morrow: Just because it's too much work and it's too hard to be homeless vehicle listen jobless and then try to put all those things back together. You know what I mean, it's hard.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have you been on my this this mindset before of, like, because I'm hearing lots of determination right now, not wanting to have to rebuild again.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, I had a couple of years ago and and I put everything back together and and then like I just decided that it would be okay to go on us.
Ryan Morrow: And then that's why I went
Ryan Morrow: To bright heart, the first time.
Ryan Morrow: Or sought sought out by heart, because I had lost everything that I had just, you know, gained and put back together and
Ryan Morrow: I just thought that would be okay to go and get high for a couple of days and it turned into
Ryan Morrow: A month addiction.
Ryan Morrow: And so I lost all everything and went back to Clovis
Ryan Morrow: And I'm sorry working at a car wash. And that's when I got back on Suboxone
Ryan Morrow: And I relapse like four or five months later.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is this your second time and by hell.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You first join in, like last year, right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I also have the enrollment in teen challenge.
Ryan Morrow: Program.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When you were younger, all over you.
Your call
Ryan Morrow: It's like three, four years ago I went and stayed for 15 months and completed it. Okay.
Ryan Morrow: YOU KNOW, YOU KNOW IT team challenges. It's not for teenagers, it's just called teen challenge, because that's what it was when it originated, but it's a Christian. Yeah.
Let me shoot me program.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, but they don't really I don't really know why they call it a substance abuse treatment program because they don't do anything. First, they just teach you the Bible and how to pray and
Ryan Morrow: Ask God to heal you. But, and I get, and I'm a Christian. I, I understand that that logic, but there's a lot more that comes to it. Yes, like, yeah, it's like
Ryan Morrow: So, logically, psychologically, yeah.
Ryan Morrow: And so I like to
Ryan Morrow: Like to implement
Ryan Morrow: A little bit of both into my recovery. So, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They'll you're familiar with the program we incorporate that into all the treatment plans because it's multifaceted the recovery process, you know, spirituality component identifying triggers.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, find a supportive environment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Feeling like you are invested member of the community through volunteer work as well as complainant
It's multifaceted
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I have here that you don't have any suicide attempts, or ideation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That still accurate.
Ryan Morrow: Yes. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, there's no family history of mental health, substance abuse or addiction or
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your parents are still alive.
Ryan Morrow: Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: two younger sisters and you have two children.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Uh huh. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What are the ages.
Ryan Morrow: 20 thanks for, for I was really young.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh yeah, like you look young. Okay, what's your with your kids.
Ryan Morrow: Pretty good. It's good. I mean that they were. I was so young. And she was so young when it happened that she raised them pretty much because she moved away after she got pregnant with a sec on
Ryan Morrow: Then, so I didn't really get to be a part of their lives until a couple years ago. So it's kind of a
Ryan Morrow: Kind of a long story, but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay.
Ryan Morrow: Oh, yeah, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are you currently in a relationship.
Ryan Morrow: No, no, trying
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The children have any history with addiction.
Ryan Morrow: No, not at all. They're really good kids actually it's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any contact with the mother, the children's mother.
Ryan Morrow: No I don't talk to her. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right, so you're working full time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Work at an oil.
Ryan Morrow: So I work in a world filled not not actually on oil rig, but oh yeah I do a little topic. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Sorry, I'm from Florida. So I try to make it seem like I know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know the jail there, but I'm really not familiar with it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what's your actual
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: job title. I know that they were very long hours streets were conditions and work environments, but I don't know the different roles.
Ryan Morrow: Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what's your job title.
Ryan Morrow: Was my job title.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, at the oil field.
Ryan Morrow: I'm, I'm a field operator. Okay.
All right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Why is typically your defense mechanism. When you are feeling stressed.
Ryan Morrow: How do you typically deal with those stressors. Are you someone that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Avoids to become a little agitated aggressive. Do you do have activities to distract yourself with you physically do
Ryan Morrow: Coping mechanisms, I would say I would talk to
Ryan Morrow: A lot like my mom, I would call my mom.
Ryan Morrow: Pray meditate or listen to music and go to the gym.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What are your hobbies.
Ryan Morrow: The gym.
Ryan Morrow: Listening to music watching movies. I'm hunting a little bit shooting guns, stuff like that.
Ryan Morrow: Man, it's really hard at my age. And as much as I work to have hobbies, but the number one thing that I do is go to the gym.
Ryan Morrow: And then relax hang out with family.
Ryan Morrow: And the family aren't really like
Ryan Morrow: They're still kind of getting over and hailing from
Ryan Morrow: The past few months of my
Ryan Morrow: Addiction so
Ryan Morrow: But, I'm, I'm in a pretty good place right now I have a really good job. But you know, I don't have a vehicle and I don't have my own place right now. And so I'm having to Uber and have friends, bringing me to and from work.
Ryan Morrow: So for the next three months until I get enough money saved up, it's going to be kind of kind of hard. But I don't know anybody here in LA big where I live. I don't know where any drugs are
Ryan Morrow: I'm taking my soapbox and and I feel great. So
Ryan Morrow: Mentally, I mean, I'm in a good place. I just need to get stable. Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: And, you know, after you get you get clean and and stuff. The hardest that I mean that's hard. Yeah, but the hardest thing is is is a cleaning up all your messages. You know, you get the relationships that burn bridges and getting your life back together. Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Feeling back, Ryan. Were you ever
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, I have all these things.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That are you up to date with your
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Little meningitis and the manufacturing's
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, no I don't, I don't take vaccines.
Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, what's your relationship like with your parents.
Ryan Morrow: Haven't talked to my dad and two years and it's pretty. It's really good. My mom and my sisters. They're mad at me still kind of
Ryan Morrow: But I mean I'm close with them whenever I'm not doing drugs. Yeah, and they love me. Yeah. And the same thing with my kids.
Ryan Morrow: But me and my dad. I've always issues. So I would say like, going back to when I was a kid. That would be the number one thing that I would look at and think that that might have had an effect on the outcome of my life.
Ryan Morrow: And also getting a girl pregnant as young as I did was number two and number three was when I was 13 I was in a truck accident and that girl that was in the back of the truck with me died.
Ryan Morrow: So those are three things that I think really have had an effect on my life. I mean, I
Ryan Morrow: I don't really, I can't say that I hate my dad or have resentment towards him. You know, it is what it is like my dad's always going to be the way that he is and and if I want to have a relationship with him. I just have to, you know,
Ryan Morrow: Deal with the things that he says, and the way that you
Ryan Morrow: Know, whatever, but it doesn't bother me to not have a relationship with them. It doesn't make me want to go through drugs. I don't think
Ryan Morrow: But
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Did you see the relationship and the dynamics of the relationship with your father.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you feel that it impacts your ability
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To build
Other relationships.
Ryan Morrow: Now, I've never really
Ryan Morrow: I mean, I might have inherited some things from my dad.
Ryan Morrow: That I'm not like
Ryan Morrow: Wow.
Ryan Morrow: I'm sorry.
Ryan Morrow: I'm trying to
Ryan Morrow: Get ready to leave work so that I can get out of here.
Ryan Morrow: And the only time that they get scheduled my reading was, this was the latest one, and I work till seven. So it's really hard for me, you know, Monday through Saturday to schedule a counseling session, unless it's during my lunch time. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Rocky showing up. Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I have about 10 minutes left that be okay for you.
Ryan Morrow: Yes. Good. All right.
Ryan Morrow: So, um,
Ryan Morrow: You mentioned some promise I
Ryan Morrow: Promise.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I won't do.
Ryan Morrow: Any additional exposure to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any
Ryan Morrow: physical or sexual abuse.
Ryan Morrow: Child
Ryan Morrow: Physically by my father. But that's, that's it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We said physical abuse.
Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: More verbal in anything, but there was a few times where, you know, he might have spanked me a little harder than he should have been the face know
Ryan Morrow: This stuff like that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any experience with
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Sexual abuse, either.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: As a child or an adult.
Ryan Morrow: Sexual abuse. No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, you mentioned the the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: vehicle accident. How about like any natural
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Disasters survived been exposed natural disasters or
Ryan Morrow: Not like like what kind of natural disaster like a
Ryan Morrow: Tornado or. Yes, yes.
No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm combat trauma trauma mean, do you have any military background.
Ryan Morrow: No, ma'am. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, were you ever a victim of a violent crime.
Ryan Morrow: Now,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: On
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any domestic violence or physical
Violence.
Ryan Morrow: No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: death of a loved one.
Ryan Morrow: Do what
Ryan Morrow: Just the girl that died when I was 13 and then of course my grandmas are away. But I mean, they were all you know it was their time. So nothing like that.
Do you have me
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Go ahead.
Ryan Morrow: I've tried really hard to evaluate and analyze and
Ryan Morrow: Kind of site.
Ryan Morrow: Give myself a psychological exam or whatever to think like what caused me to do end up the way that I ended up. And yeah, I really can't think of like besides my dad like why
Ryan Morrow: I made the choice of bad choices that I made.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Ongoing ongoing therapeutic intervention with the therapists will definitely help with kind of uncovering some of those things and catching the connections and your thoughts and your patterns of thinking
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, do you have any legal issues, right.
Ryan Morrow: You know, like physically no
Ryan Morrow: I mean, I did test positive for Pepsi.
Ryan Morrow: And I scheduled an appointment with a doctor that's on April 21 at 8:40am so I'm really
Ryan Morrow: Anxious to get that taken care of. But other than that.
Ryan Morrow: No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But any legal issues.
Ryan Morrow: No, not in 15 years. Okay. All right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you have siblings are you the oldest middle or youngest
Ryan Morrow: Oldest ah
Ryan Morrow: Have a counseling session on this.
Ryan Morrow: A counseling session.
Ryan Morrow: Good.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Sorry.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, this, this was really like, man, bad timing, but I know like in order to, you know, be patient that I have to do these things. Well, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let me wrap it up for you.
What's that
Ryan Morrow: Do what
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are your treatment plan. Right. Do you have any short term or long term goals.
Ryan Morrow: Do I have any short term, long term goals. Yeah. Well, yeah, I mean short term goal will be to get my own place like an apartment.
Ryan Morrow: To get a vehicle again and
Ryan Morrow: Fix the relationships you know with my family and stuff, long term goal would be to get married and being the like in my kid's life. I need to be able to help them.
Ryan Morrow: Your kids.
Children.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, they do.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Grandpa.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, that's crazy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, so they know we were building that building a relationship with your grandchildren as well.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so in the in the treatment you know about those weekly group attendance.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Individual therapy whenever it's scheduled. Make sure you're developing the relapse.
Prevention
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And cooperating that spirituality
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Component.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then helping you to identify
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Some of the things to talk about.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Uncovering what exactly triggered this onset of addiction, so
Ryan Morrow: Any emotional triggers relationships triggers.
Ryan Morrow: And then also helping you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Identify healthy coping skills. So that's, that's our goal.
Ryan Morrow: That
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We're having you in the program. Hey,
Ryan Morrow: In the event.
Ryan Morrow: After the program where the
Ryan Morrow: voluntary or involuntary
Ryan Morrow: Do what you did just now you
Ryan Morrow: Know, get back in the program collaboratively resources.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And don't give up.
To start again.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The long term goals is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To help you with abstaining for long term sobriety understanding the brain process and mood altering substances and its impact and long term sobriety.
Ryan Morrow: Is that will use different therapy techniques cognitive behavioral therapy Dialectical Behavioral therapy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Therapy and mindfulness, Texas.
Ryan Morrow: Questions that sounds good.
Ryan Morrow: No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right, well thanks for your time.
Ryan Morrow: All right, thank you. And I'll see you again, I guess, whenever they schedule my next one.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes, you will have to let them know when you know you wanted to schedule again. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When do you go to group.
Okay.
Ryan Morrow: Tomorrow at 830
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay well keep me posted
Ryan Morrow: All right, I will, thank you so much.
Ryan Morrow: Have a good night. All right. Good night.